# Chapter One: Awn Dara

The last Free Kingdom, ruled for a thousand years by Immortals, the best of humanity from across the world who were drawn or called to this land 1000 plus years ago and were made, by a higher power, into heroes that can never die from old age (but can be killed).  They call themselves the Awn, the High Men.  There are female Immortals too, of course, but it’s important to note that the Immortals are multi-racial.  They do not really adhere to racial or cultural lines, having lived now for at least a thousand years or more.  They have developed their own philosophical culture and outlook, especially since the end of the war, engaged in the arts to amuse each other.  All Immortals bear one name, a descriptor that was given to them when they became Undying 1000 years ago, erasing the memory of their former selves.  Thus Sovereign, who is High King of Awn Daria, seems to have been chosen for the role.  Other Immortals are Masterful, one of the main Preceptors who founded the Guardians; Fearless, a great fighter and hero from the Sarxe Wars; Sagacious, the High King’s advisor, obviously somewhat wise.  Think of the Immortals as akin to Greek heroes.  They are typically strong as 10 men, super intelligent and aware, etc.  The Immortals also have a telekinetic and psychic ability called the Will.  Whatever the power was that made Immortals has long departed from the world, meaning that the numbers of Immortals diminishes, especially during the war against the Censurat where many Immortals were killed.  The Immortals themselves are split between two groups, the Paragons, those who view themselves as  heroes far above the common mortal who counts for nothing, and the Preceptors, those who believe that the Immortals should be teachers, raising mortals to their own level.  The High King of Awn Daria, Sovereign, is one of the former, who has little if no time for mortal concerns, often relying on Arbiters to do the difficult things in the Kingdom.  Most of the Immortals live in the Capitol city of Sendarayn, and most of them in the city live in the Solace, a massive castle at the centre of the city.  When the ERE appeared through the Rift and threatened the world with destruction unless Awn Daria and the Censurat agreed to the Arbiters, the Immortals were secretly and even not so secretly grateful for this end to the war in which their numbers were being culled.  This is a major point of contention with the Darayn (DAR ein), the mortal people of Awn Daria, who far outnumber the Immortals.  Much of the population of the Darayn is made up of refugees from the other parts of the world who fled the Censurat’s expansion.  They remember, through the generations, the horror stories of the Sarxe and the Envoys.  They do not view a peace with the Beasts (which is what Awn and Darayn call the Sarxe) in a favourable light.  There is a tension among Darayn as well as to who is pure blooded Darayn, as in not a refugee--originally from the land of Daria, and who has very little pure Darayn blood in them.  Also, the Immortals are bored with the peace, and are increasingly doing things like killing mortals for sport, destroying innocents.  Not a lot of this and not in the open, but rumours of these things are making the Darayn begin to organize themselves to rise up against the Awn and take the land for themselves.  The smallfolk of Awn Daria are poor but not destitute, typical medieval villagers and farmers who know only snippets of news that feels more like legend, and work sun up to sun down, and die without ever having traveled further than the next town.
Magic in Awn Daria
The different magic-users of the Free Kingdom do not play well together and essentially are the remnants of once-great magic traditions fled from persecution and destruction as the Censurat claimed kingdom after kingdom in the last 100 years.  Awn Daria itself was first and foremost a Kingdom of the Immortals with no other magic going on.  Then the Sorcerers, the War Witches, the Wizards, and the Anthurites showed up and made a home next to one another.

Sorcerers: they channel Essence, which they call Vis.  The Sorcerers once had Collegia all across the Southlands of Versain, these all fell to the Censurat, in large part because the Sorcerers, over the centuries before the Sarxe Wars, basically traded much of their power for wealth, affecting trade routes with Essence Storms for their own gain.  The Collegium that exists now in Awn Daria became effective at churning out Sorcerers who wielded Essence the way a fighter wields a sword.

War Witch: these are extremely formidable fighters from the former Kingdom of Moren Tal, always women.  The ability is passed down in families to the females, manifesting when the girl comes of age.  Most of the familial bloodlines from Moren Tal were wiped out by the Sarxe, but several escaped to Awn Daria, and the War Witches prospered during the Sarxe Wars, dominating the battlefield as easily as a Guardian, if not an Immortal.  War Witches fight in skimpy clothes, no armour, moving fluidly through carnage, healing themselves, drawing terrible power from within to strike through opponent’s shields and armour, dealing death blows at every fall of the blade.

Wizards: there are maybe five or six Wizards in the world, no-one knows, not even the Wizards themselves, who once, perhaps thousands of years ago, formed a Council that ruled one of the forerunner civilizations of Versain.  All of that has long since vanished, however the Wizards remain alive, perhaps as Undying as the Immortals.  They are, all of them, completely insane, and have been for a long, long time.  The most known of all Wizards is Tersorix, who appeared like Gandalf in the hour of need during the Sarxe Wars, and who, like Gandalf, shows up at world events to give advice and cast strange spells and foretell people’s future.

Priesthood of Anthurah, the Anthurites: this is an ancient religion dating back to the beginning of human history in Versain, worship of the Goddess Anthurah (who is in fact one of the Versaraon), an avatar of nature and life and healing.  Much of the magic done in the temples of Anthurah or in the wilds as a solitary Mendicant travels from town to town, healing and counselling the smallfolk in return for donations to the temple, is blood magic, a spilling of the Priest’s or Priestess’s blood, or someone else’s, in return for Anthurah’s ancient power which remains a part of the land.  The religion was once centered on human sacrifice, but that tradition has lapsed millennia past.  Or has it?

The Guardians
Several of the Preceptor Immortals, including Masterful, established a school for gifted mortals during the Sarxe Wars in which the mortals were taught discipline and will, harnessing the power latent in this world and in themselves.  The graduates of this school become Guardians, gifted mortals who were key soldiers in the war.  Guardians are trained in four disciplines: the Warrior’s Path (martial skills), the Diplomat’s Path (mild psychic powers linked to manipulating people), the Conjurer’s Path (harnessing Essence), the Sentinel’s Path (using willpower and inner strength to heal wounds and remain strong).  Each Guardian is a unique combination of the four.  Any Guardian who has mastered one of the paths is called an Ascendant Guardian, and usually these Guardians remain in the school to teach new recruits.  The school is located remotely, not in any of the major Awn Darian cities, perhaps in the mountains like a Wu Xia monastery.